README.md, before:

# Data Exercise

This data exercise represents an example of the type of data work we complete. We estimate that the exercise will take 2-3 hours to complete. Please use whatever statistical programming language, programming language, or data manipulation tool you are most comfortable with (SAS, R, SPSS, STATA, Python, SQL, etc).

This exercise will evaluate your ability to build a cohort of patients and calculate some metrics related to that cohort. You should have the following:

- [5 datasets](datasets) (all data you need is found within the provided datasets)
- [A data dictionary](data-dictionary.xlsx) defining each dataset and its fields

## Instructions

### Part 1: Assemble the project cohort

The project goal is to identify patients seen for drug overdose, determine if they were prescribed opioids at the time of the overdose, and if they had any readmissions for drug overdose.

Your task is to assemble the study cohort by identifying encounters that meet the following criteria:

1. The patient’s visit is an encounter for drug overdose
2. The hospital encounter occurs after July 15, 1999
3. The patient’s age at time of encounter is between 18 and 35

### Part 2: Create additional fields

With your drug overdose encounter, create the following indicators:

1. `DEATH_AT_VISIT_IND`: `1` if patient died during the drug overdose encounter, `0` if the patient died at a different time, left as `N/A` if the patient has not died
2. `COUNT_CURRENT_MEDS`: Count of active medications the patient was prescribed to at the time of the drug overdose encounter
3. `CURRENT_OPIOID_IND`: `1` if the patient was currently prescribed to at least one active medication on the Opioids List (provided below) at the time of the drug overdose encounter
4. `READMISSION_180_DAY_IND`: `1` if the patient was readmitted for drug overdose within 180 days of discharge from the origin drug overdose encounter
5. `READMISSION_90_DAY_IND`: `1` if the patient was readmitted for drug overdose within 90 days of discharge from the origin drug overdose encounter
6. `READMISSION_30_DAY_IND`: `1` if the patient was readmitted for drug overdose within 30 days of discharge from the origin drug overdose encounter, `0` if not
7. `FIRST_READMISSION_DATE`: The date of the first readmission for drug overdose. Field should be left as `N/A` if no readmission for drug overdose within 180 days

### Part 3: Export the data to a `CSV` file

Export a dataset containing these required fields:

| Field name                | Field Description                                                                                                                  | Data Type        |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| `PATIENT_ID`              | Patient identifier                                                                                                                 | Character String |
| `ENCOUNTER_ID`            | Visit identifier                                                                                                                   | Character string |
| `HOSPITAL_ENCOUNTER_DATE` | Beginning of hospital encounter date                                                                                               | Date/time        |
| `AGE_AT_VISIT`            | Patient age at admission                                                                                                           | Num              |
| `DEATH_AT_VISIT_IND`      | Indicator if the patient died during the drug overdose encounter. Leave `N/A` if patient has not died,                             | 0 /1             |
| `COUNT_CURRENT_MEDS`      | Count of active medications the patient was perbscribed to at the time of the drug overdose encounter                              | Num              |
| `CURRENT_OPIOID_IND`      | Indicator if the patient was perscribed to an active medication on the Opioids List at the time of the drug overdose encounter     | 0/1              |
| `READMISSION_180_DAY_IND` | Indicator if the patient was readmitted for drug overdose within 180 days of discharge from the origin drug overdose encounter     | 0/1              |
| `READMISSION_90_DAY_IND`  | Indicator if the patient was readmitted for drug overdose within 90 days of discharge from the origin drug overdose encounter      | 0/1              |
| `READMISSION_30_DAY_IND`  | Indicator if the patient was readmitted for drug overdose within 30 days of discharge from the origin drug overdose encounter      | 0/1              |
| `FIRST_READMISSION_DATE`  | Date of the first readmission for drug overdose within 180 days. Leave `N/A` if no readmissions for drug overdose within 180 days. | Date/time        |

## Opioids List:

- Hydromorphone 325Ml
- Fentanyl – 100 MCG
- Oxycodone-acetaminophen 100 Ml

## Submission Guidelines

Upon completion, please email the following to [DataRecruiting@email.chop.edu](mailto:DataRecruiting@email.chop.edu):

1. Data Exercise output dataset (`.csv`)
2. Data Exercise code (text file)

Good luck!

Commit message:

Update with changes from the word document

README.md, after:

# Data Exercise

This data exercise represents an example of the type of data work we complete. We estimate that the exercise will take 2-3 hours to complete. Please use whatever statistical programming language, programming language, or data manipulation tool you are most comfortable with (SAS, R, SPSS, STATA, Python, SQL, etc).

This exercise will evaluate your ability to build a cohort of patients and calculate some metrics related to that cohort. You should have the following:

- [5 datasets](datasets) (all data you need is found within the provided datasets)
- [A data dictionary](data-dictionary.xlsx) defining each dataset and its fields

## Instructions

### Part 1: Assemble the project cohort

The project goal is to identify patients seen for drug overdose, determine if they had an active opioid at the time of the overdose, and if they had any readmissions for drug overdose.

Your task is to assemble the study cohort by identifying encounters that meet the following criteria:

1. The patient’s visit is an encounter for drug overdose
2. The hospital encounter occurs after July 15, 1999
3. The patient’s age at time of encounter is between 18 and 35 (Patient is considered to be 35 until turning 36)

### Part 2: Create additional fields

With your drug overdose encounter, create the following indicators:

1. `DEATH_AT_VISIT_IND`: `1` if patient died during the drug overdose encounter, `0` if the patient died at a different time
2. `COUNT_CURRENT_MEDS`: Count of active medications at the time of the drug overdose encounter
3. `CURRENT_OPIOID_IND`: `1` if the patient had at least one active medication at the time of the overdose encounter that is on the Opioids List (provided below)
4. `READMISSION_90_DAY_IND`: `1` if the visit resulted in a subsequent drug overdose readmission within 90 days, 0 if not 
5. `READMISSION_30_DAY_IND`: `1` if the visit resulted in a subsequent drug overdose readmission within 30 days, 0 if not overdose encounter, `0` if not
6. `FIRST_READMISSION_DATE`: The date of the index visit's first readmission for drug overdose. Field should be left as `N/A` if no readmission for drug overdose within 90 days

### Part 3: Export the data to a `CSV` file

Export a dataset containing these required fields:

| Field name                | Field Description                                                                                                                  | Data Type        |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| `PATIENT_ID`              | Patient identifier                                                                                                                 | Character String |
| `ENCOUNTER_ID`            | Visit identifier                                                                                                                   | Character string |
| `HOSPITAL_ENCOUNTER_DATE` | Beginning of hospital encounter date                                                                                               | Date/time        |
| `AGE_AT_VISIT`            | Patient age at admission                                                                                                           | Num              |
| `DEATH_AT_VISIT_IND`      | Indicator if the patient died during the drug overdose encounter. Leave `N/A` if patient has not died,                             | 0 /1             |
| `COUNT_CURRENT_MEDS`      | Count of active medications at the time of the drug overdose encounter                          | Num              |
| `CURRENT_OPIOID_IND`      | if the patient had at least one active medication at the time of the overdose encounter that is on the Opioids List (provided below)     | 0/1              |
| `READMISSION_90_DAY_IND`  | Indicator if the visit resulted in a subsequent readmission within 90 days     | 0/1              |
| `READMISSION_30_DAY_IND`  | Indicator if the visit resulted in a subsequent readmission within 90 days     | 0/1              |
| `FIRST_READMISSION_DATE`  | Date of the first readmission for drug overdose within 90 days. Leave `N/A` if no readmissions for drug overdose within 90 days. | Date/time        |

## Opioids List:

- Hydromorphone 325Ml
- Fentanyl – 100 MCG
- Oxycodone-acetaminophen 100 Ml

## Submission Guidelines

Upon completion, please email the following to [DataRecruiting@email.chop.edu](mailto:DataRecruiting@email.chop.edu):

1. Data Exercise output dataset (`.csv`) (Please name the `.csv` file in the following format: "FIRSTNAME_LASTNAME.csv")
2. Data Exercise code (text file)

Good luck!
